>> Todd Gardner: Some tactics.
Here's what we're gonna cover.
One, we can compress our HTTP resources,
so
we can ship fewer bytes over the wire,
doing fewer things.
We can use more efficient protocols
that do less chatty things.
We can change the capacity of our host,
and
we can change where our host is located.
We're gonna do all of those things.
First Let's talk about compression.
So compression is reducing the size
of our plain text files, so the HTML,
the CSS, and the JavaScript.
We ship regular text across the wire.
You can read the HTML.
Maybe shipping all of those bytes
is not the most efficient way, and
we can compress it down into
a more efficient format.
The ways to do that is with a couple
of protocols called Gzip and Brotli.
There's some other ones, but
these are the most predominantly used.
And here's some examples
of what these things do.
So I have an example, HTML document,
CSS file, and JavaScript file, and
totally uncompressed,
just the plain text source.
It's about 1.1 megabytes
uncompressed HTML.
If I run that through Gzip
on the medium setting,
that comes out at 282 kilobytes,
so about 25% of the original file.
Brotli, which is a newer compression
algorithm that came out from Google,
but it's broadly supported
standard in all browsers,
gets that all the way down to 20
kilobytes, so 1.7% of the original size.
You can see similar examples in
the CSS file and the Javascript file.
Compressing, even if you can only compress
in Gzip is great if you can compress in
broadly.
Be it's even better.
So what does compression
actually look like over the wire?
So when the user is making a request,
the user says, hey,
get me the root of devstickers.shop.
It'd be great.
It can send up an accept encoding header,
accept.
Encoding is basically, how can you
compress the file that's gonna come back?
And most often you'll see this,
accept encoding, gzip, deflate, brotli.
Br is brotli.
Deflate is another standard that's
more broadly used than brotli.
It's a little better than Gzip.
Generally, I'm not talking about
that too much because most browsers
today support broadly.
So it says,
here's the things that I know how to read.
Here's the things I can deal with.
And the browser, when it sends something
back, it's gonna choose based on
the options the client sent about what the
client can understand, which one to use.
And will return the content with the
header content encoding whatever content
encoding broadly, that means that
the actual stuff inside the response body
has been compressed,
has been encoded with whatever algorithm.
It says here, it's not shipping
the raw bytes over the wire anymore.
So let's see what that looks like
we can actually turn that on.
We're gonna go into our
local DevStickers app.
So in local DevStickers,
I have everything kind of already
set up on how to turn this on.
So if we go into performance config in the
root, I have all the different settings
kind of I've abstracted out here for
what kinds of things we want to do.
So I have enabled Gzip compression and
enabled Brotli compression
options out here.
When these things are turned on, I'm,
it's basically instructing the server,
which lives in source app JS.
If you actually are interested
in where this gets used.
We're instructing the static server
whether or not to use compression.
Now, compression doesn't
always work super well or
it's not always worth it
on super small files.
If you have a file that's
only like a few bytes,
it's usually not worth the processing
power to bother compressing it.
But I have it turned on to always compress
everything just so we can see it for
demo purposes.
So, what I'm gonna do here is I'm
gonna go to performance config, and
I'm going to turn Qzip compression on.
And save it, and the whole thing should
automatically reload so
we can play with it.
>> Todd Gardner: When I make
a request here against localhost, and
we look inside the network panel.
I'm just gonna pick the first thing here,
which is the request to local host,
we see that the request headers,
we will accept encoding of Gzip,
deflate, Brotli, or Zstandard.
And then when the response came back down,
it said, great.
I'm going to send you some Gzip.
And the response that
was actually in here,
this wasn't actually what was returned.
It was this that was encoded with Gzip,
was returned.
Now we can see a size improvement.
So this file that was gzip
encoded was six kilobytes.
The same file, when we requested it from
my hosted version that did
not do any gzip, returned.
Returned 33 kb.
So we cut this from 33 kb down to
6 kb just by turning on a widely
accepted compression algorithm.
That's just a setting in most web servers.
Huge boost.
Let's go a step further.
We're gonna go to our code and we're also
gonna turn on Brotli compression and
save this.
And now we're gonna make in our DevTools,
localhost,
we're going to refresh
this page all right.
So we had 6k on gzip, and
it was actually slightly
larger on broadly it made
it a little bit Bigger.
Now this is not entirely unusual,
because the different algorithms
will compress at different rates.
Brotli is slightly less, is slightly
less effective at small file sizes,
but hugely more effective
at large file sizes.
So if you're dealing with
mostly a bunch of really small.
Small files,
you can probably stick with gzip.
Brotli is really good for
more real-world applications.
Obviously, in this sample site,
all of my pages are teeny tiny.
They don't do that much.
So we're not quite
hitting those thresholds.
But we have both on now for the future.
So we enabled compression.